hi everyone welcome to the ipfs
core implementations weekly sync for
monday the 30th november
i am akin brain i'll be your host we're
going to go through our hyper
initiatives
other initiatives q a parking lot all
the usual stuff
it's going to be awesome uh
kicking off for the high priority
initiatives upcoming and ship releases
what's going on yes the ipfs 0.8
rc is is near we're like we're like this
close
um there's there's a couple of of
like things to polish up on
uh the painting services and local
pinning but they're everything seems to
be passing and so it's just like making
sure we have like a final
uh final review of nailing down all the
interop things we needed to interpret to
nail down
um but yeah
we're almost there we'll cover more when
we get to them in the next sections
and so uh we also started in just
the preparation for the 0.30 release
uh i seem to reject last week and we
decided
since we already have so much to release
that it didn't make that much sense to
wait for the rendezvous
to be done so we also wanted to start
making
smaller releases from now on so we'll uh
we are starting to prepare to
do the rc probably this week for just a
bit with 0.30 i already started
integrating
with jspfs and the ci is green which is
great uh and yeah i'm basically now
finishing
some docks on the relay production guide
for enabling people to easily use the
auto relay and also
just finishing some of the js docs work
on lipid speed car
very exciting definitely pro
many small releases rather than big bang
releases
uh next up is pinning services
uh leila do you want to give the status
uh yeah totally uh so um
the pull requesting go ipfs is green
which is good
uh and it's ready for review uh i
sneaked in
uh some like sanitization of secrets
it should do the same thing that we
already do for the private key
that's the short story and
you likely created a mock pinning
service which is much
lighter than running entire
rails up in with docker compose
on the ci so we may want
to switch to that now that we know the
test
path and our green we may switch to that
so we don't
need docker based
infra on the ci
do that before we merge it to master
mostly to ensure the ci is robust
because right now
even though we check out the specific
revision of the
ravion rails pinning service the docker
compose file itself uses the latest tag
for a docker image so it actually does
not
pin ci to specific version and it may
break any
at any point so in effort to make
a ci stable i suggest we switch
before we match the pr but that should
not block reviewing the pr it's just
flips replacing the remote pinning
service which
for the sharness tests we just point
sharna's test a specific
port it should not make any
difference
nice
um next up is local pin
so local pinning is basically done we've
we've uh
hammered through all of the repo
migrations
stuff before we have to go back and like
rewrite how we do migrations due to some
problems that
we noticed um
we switched things over we're having
some minor issues with
um with the seabor
serialization deserialization stuff
that's fixed now because we're using
atlases
um the only thing that i i noticed today
as i was double checking
some like js and go interop stuff
is that we don't use we use uh
the pin i guess depth as an enum
instead of an integer
neither go nor js actually support
anything other than direct or recursive
pins
it's like something we've talked about
so i don't
know if this is like and and the remote
pinning services don't do this either
so it seems like we might be fine just
leaving it as an enum but
i'm open to changing it also if uh
if people think that preparing us for
that is important
um i also noticed that
i i couldn't tell whether javascript is
storing their data store in dot pins
or slash pins uh
but those are those the only two things
left and then i think this is done
um uh
secail removal we've
second has been off on the bootstrappers
for a while
uh secio has been the old dht nodes have
been our dht booster nodes have been
turned off
uh and the new ones don't support secio
so the nodes that are still on the
network it's still connected to
everybody
or those that are still connected to
people in the public dht are just nodes
that
have either kind of hacked around things
or they just haven't turned themselves
off yet and restarted
um hopefully those people will will
realize what's up and upgrade soon
because we have been posting all over
the interwebs for like months about this
uh but everything seems good and network
seems to be getting actually a little
faster because we're
you know getting rid of some of the old
nodes
we haven't i haven't seen any people
screaming about not having secure
removed so yeah yeah i mean no no
screaming
so hopefully you know all good
maybe we'll just give it one more week
and then
completely tear down the old boosters
yeah i mean right now they're off i
think it's just a matter of hitting the
delete button on the instances
if no one complains yeah for a week we
can just hit the delete button
okay
um on the pending thing for the record
jsrpfs does support arbitrary depths
uh it just doesn't just doesn't expose
it at the moment um hector
talked me into thinking it was important
because he's you know it was for the
cluster use case of saying here's a dag
like just
just pin this bit of it and then this
one can pin like the rest of it or
whatever
um but in order to have api
compatibility with go
it only actually supports uh direct or
recursive
but recursive just means an infinite
pendant
interesting and
i guess we could we could store the pin
that we could store the pin depth as a
as you know integer slash infinity and
then add support for
depth later if we want to maybe that
would be
sort of the you know not so much work
but save us going forward but like you
know help us out going forward
in the pinning service api we initially
had
depth parameter but we like removed it
and it's like now it's just implicitly
recursive mostly because we did not want
to make
that decision in that third party api
before we make a decision in like go up
as js ipfs
so that's the only reason why we don't
have like the type of pin and it's just
implicit
okay yeah so maybe we'll add depth as
as an integer slash infinity i'll try
and make sure that the infinity is the
same one
that we're using in javascript um
i may tag you alex for a review to make
sure that i did it right
i mean what or even our numbers in
javascript anyway
what even our numbers it's a good
question
exactly what they are
do we have a use case for for depth uh
pinning depth
the cluster was one um and i was also
when i was
messing around with npm on ipfs i did
not want to pin all of
npm i definitely only wanted to pin a
little bit
of npm
yeah i mean it's still it's it the use
case is a little funky
in that it seems
like what you'd prefer is to give people
like a particular subtree of a dag
but then you need and then you need a
way to describe like a selector for like
the first
path where you only have like one path
going down and then the whole tree
but in lieu of that you could do depth
and just say i'm just gonna go like
you know i'm just gonna go like two
levels down yeah that's what i was
asking that didn't seem
to me to make a lot of sense but then i
just well anyway we can talk yeah later
so
one of the reasons i'm saying is if
we're going to do something maybe we
need to make room for something that's
more
uh maybe more in line with an actual use
case like having
the ability to specify a selector as
opposed to just a depth
yeah i think the only question yeah i
was going to say the same thing maybe it
might make sense to pass a selector and
we just support
once a vector that is equivalent of
infinity
uh and then over time we can add support
to other selectors
yeah the empty selector would be the
default and then
right yeah i mean at that point at that
point i feel like i'd rather just leave
things as they are and write a migration
later because selectors
only really exist in go ipld prime and
we don't really have that anywhere in
the ipfs code base yet
except for like very tangentially so i
don't want to go down that
so i'm trying to hold right now so that
kind of my kind of feeling is
since we're kind of guessing at the need
for depth maybe it's better that we
wait till we actually get get to that
bridge before we cross it
what's the implication of like just
spinning the top part of an ipod 3
i think it's making it more convenient
for
in in like a cluster sort of environment
where you want to split up the chunks of
the tree
among people um
and you can coordinate all of that but
without using sort of
direct pins for like every single
node it's just being like allowing that
to be managed a little easier i'm not
convinced this is like the best or only
way
i've just seen that we talked about it
before and that it was in js that's like
yeah so so this the thing is that this
this question interferes with content
routing
because um um this really is kind of
like a content routing
type strategy and so
the question is should people think of
the of the
content trees as something that
pertains to content to the nature of
content and
where as opposed to something that there
is a mechanism for partitioning
what things you want to provide and not
like we need
you see what i'm saying like ideally
yeah
clean mental mono and the ideal model is
that people
content trees are so you can organize
your content
and you don't you organize it without
worrying how you're gonna
you know serve it and then the content
content routing system
could worry about um you know
dividing up the three between different
people and so forth
i mean i'm just um yeah i mean
my thinking is maybe maybe we should
just like
leave things as they are punt on this so
we can do a migration when we add
features
but also i wanna we can come back to
this and the
and like the stuff at the end but i
don't wanna hold up the rest of the
meeting for this so let's let's keep
going and we'll we'll see how time goes
cool uh so we talked about circuit
removal uh next up is js improves
discoverability and connectivity
yes so the the websocket was now updated
and
finally we will not anywhere in the
browser dial
uh non-dns websocket secure multi-others
so all those annoying warnings that
people complain a lot will finally be
gone
as i said before i'm working now on the
real-life production guide
and in the renewal side of things i
started working on it in the beginning
of last week and i
basically got to the point where the
mysql integration database model and the
queries are mostly done
uh but now i shift to prepare the next
lipid release and i will eventually go
back
this week again our next one to get it
done
and that's it
uh next up is bi-directional streaming
and streaming errors in the browser
so this is the same as it was last week
i don't think i've got any comments on
that pr which either means it's perfect
which i find very hard to believe or
just no one's had the time to look at it
um if people could please cast an eye
over it i would be very grateful
so in the interim i picked up the dht
work
um we were trying to basically
implement it in node.js properly have
a some kind of reasonable performance
guarantee about
how long a query will run for
the first part of that is i think making
sure you're dialable because what's the
point of having a dht if you're not
dialable
so i implemented a quick network manager
that uses upnp
to do hole punching uh through your
router if it supports it
um there's a pr open if people could
look at that i'd be very grateful
uh if it's also the direction that we
want to go
i mean it would be really it's still
quite useful if you have
if the dht client is working
just fine and nobody's dialable and
nobody is ever in server mode
um that's probably like
yeah i know at least for me that seems
like probably the like the more
users are like users asking for this
kind of thing like even in go we see
like there's a much
larger number of client nodes than
server nodes
um so yeah just as
a heads up like if you you start having
to worry about like autonat and any of
the other like servery things
like you could just say like ah screw it
we're gonna do client mode
upnp is useful anyway for fashion
content so
that that doesn't say not to do that but
yeah i've looked at the upnp thing a
little bit i need to look at it more
i think overall looks good there's just
some
how we're updating addresses will need
to get updated
but i'll look at that more and then
comment in there
okay that is the end of the high
priority initiatives uh moving on to
other initiatives
so far add process in the web ui
um that's me uh it's on a back burner
while i'm working on the
remote cleaning stuff so update there
this week i have something on the next
item too which is
typescript integration for ipfs
um so there's a proposal now in the
issues
which kind of tries to describe how we
can do things
more conveniently and hopefully better
uh
if you care about any of the typescript
stuff it might be worse for you to look
at there
and provide a comment um
i update the pull request for ipfs speed
swap
uh after hugo got around to review it uh
i think i might have to do another pass
on it
uh then there is a pull request
about removing api manager which makes
typing of ipfs a lot more easier
um alex if you can review that that
would be great
then i'll review your patch
i think we need to release our pfsd cto
because they just don't get all the urls
in the package json
oh yeah hugo can we release that because
i don't really see if there's any reason
not to release it it doesn't depends on
the changes here so that would make it a
lot easier
for me to also keep merging updates into
it
um and what is the last one oh yeah
and then i discovered the regression in
our typing stuff
uh after which timeout options have move
has moved
there's some awkwardness with typescript
where it kind of sees the types that are
not within module but doesn't really
work with them correctly so everything
ends up in any so
there's a pull request that fixes it uh
maybe it's landed already
uh that's what i my end on typescript i
think hugo has more updates here
yep um
okay so yeah the bit swap stuff um
is already talked about we have prs for
the
interface data store the data store core
and multi-other
uh the multi-other one is gonna
apparently i think we agree that we're
gonna do a breaking change
uh because uh like exporting
uh the function that creates a class
like in the old javascript way it's hard
to
for typescript to understand that so
just exporting the class uh it's much
better
but it's a big breaking change for the
users we're gonna try to make it
a little bit easier but i think we're
going to do it
uh there's a touchscreen bug reported
that has been marked as a bug and
scheduled for
4.2 so that's super good for us
it's gonna unblock a lot of uh easier
typing with jstocs
and also the next version of type talk
looks to work much much better with
common gs
and js stock types um
or common gs sources with jsoc types
so that's also awesome and yeah that's
it
and in the the lipid pit site i updated
uh
the my pr to use the new idea the tool
released last week
and now i also can use the type check
script
we had more than 400 errors
on types i fixed more most of them but
now
i need to go to the interface to unblock
the rest because we
we have things like the transport and
the mixer
and then we access methods from there
and we don't have declarations for them
so basically i will need to
first create a type declaration for
each interface and then i will be able
to finish the
delete vpr and that's it
there's actually one thing that might be
worth considering uh
one thing i'm trying to do is things
that are interfaces between components
to define them as
interfaces like datastore and few other
things
for transport it might make some sense
make sense there too so we
code against the interface rather than
against our own implementations that
depends on like internal quirks
because then you can see if interface is
incompleted and has things then we
should
like you trade on the interface to
improve it rather than just
find the backdoors yeah we i'm doing
also
with the interface because uh from the
elliptic perspective you basically
for example to the transport manager you
provide transports but then in inside
the transport manager
it's like everything is a transport and
not like web sockets or tcp
so you need to have the interface so
that you can use and have the types
generically yeah so i i think
it would be interesting to decide where
do we keep those interface files
because right now i kind of have a few
that i
in the pull request in the ipfs repo but
they don't really belong there
uh so maybe we need some package that
has like
interface stuff yeah in lipid2p we have
the lipid interfaces repo
and then we have a folder for interface
and i'm adding the types per
folder there is one for each interface
thanks
next up is the use of shared node from
service worker
um yeah i uh did another pass
of updating uh pull requests to
address three view comments i'm not sure
if
did you i don't know i have to look if
it got any
review yet for the um
the example it's merged
yay okay so it's done then all right
uh baja 2 support
this is our weekly they haven't decided
on their release
thing yet right the only thing that i've
done is uh removed the there's some
profile
a badger 2 profile information that was
merged a while ago
removed that so that we don't have any
reference to badger 2 and
so but they haven't moved just checked
this morning
uh no update on nut traversal
no update on unix of sv 1.5
which is conscious at the time and i did
want walk forward to talk about
ipld a little bit uh go ipfs
gc improvements uh some prototyping work
but no nothing to report yet
uh design uh uh pending very soon
as it's been for a while so but no they
did some prototyping work which revealed
a couple of other things which i'll
discuss
with those who those who will be
concerned with it
anyway um yeah nothing nothing to report
there than that
cool um into the other stuff design
review proposals
uh please have a look at my
bi-directional streaming pr
um blockers and asks
questions
parking lot um oh i
had a ask sorry um can we
create those uh meeting notes like after
this meeting for the next week so
as i'm making things i could add nodes
there rather than having a like
temporary buffer
and then kind of trying to put them in
right before meeting i think it would be
very helpful if we did so
no thanks
okay i guess i haven't asked about the
parking lot which is that
uh eric the link isn't uh isn't public
which i don't know if that's intentional
or not oh
great no i don't use google docs very
much and so when i do i have
frankly no idea what i'm doing
especially with access control
um so i'll figure out how to fix that
later
but there's a link there that you some
people should be able to see and
everyone will see
later once i fix it of um the ipld team
is figuring out what our priorities
should be for the coming year
and trying to take some notes in advance
on that
with all the usual caveats of lord knows
and year in advance waterfall planning
will probably fail and we will also be
agile et cetera et cetera et cetera
but we're trying to gather some lists of
things that we definitely know
should be a high priority and i've
started gathering those into a dock
so some of that might be of interest to
folks here
some of it might not um
it's probably at least a little relevant
especially for anyone who's going to be
thinking about how we integrate the
latest ipl code bases
into i think especially go ipfs is
looking forward to
some renovations there um
if there's anything that anyone working
on ipfs can think of that
should be a super high priority for us
or to support that
it would be great to hear your thoughts
on that and maybe try to get it into our
planning early otherwise i guess that's
just sort of
fyi if you find big planning documents
fun
i have a gift for you
how do you want feedback in the document
comments or whatever it's called the
change
proposals or sure
i don't know how google docs work as i
previously disclaimed
sounds like the workflow that makes
sense for you which means that if you
have questions then you throw on a
comment and if you're like i think you
should add this in then you use a
suggestion
yep also hannah and alex creekshank
will be back on next week um so we can
sync up with them as well and figure out
everything we need to do to get
go ipl prime all up in go ipfs
um i have one other thing that i want to
point out uh so unrelated to this
subject
uh as i've been working a little bit
more on the
remote pinning stuff i did find
certain api things little awkward and i
was wondering
and then i talked to lydle and it seems
that decisions were intentional
and the goal is to fix them later on
and i'm going to propose it's good to
have a document where we say
this is where we want to be and how we
want to be but we
decided to do this now for now uh
so it's easy to share with everyone
involved to
be able to see where it's going and what
the end goal is
um i believe we we have this
like hackpad like margarine document
with
a pin remote and then we try to model
how pin local would look like at the end
jake
dude yeah yeah yeah so we have a hack md
where we tried to
basically from the
go ipfs when js ipfs like what
what we want the sort of the the ipfs
apis to look like that allow us to do
this
i suspect that i'm not sure exactly like
which points you're getting at or
whether it's the things like we don't uh
you know
not authenticating using like lupita p
streams
or whether it's things like or having
acls for groups of pins or whether it's
things like
you know it can pass selectors into a
pen
so two things that are i found a little
awkward was
uh first of all having this remote and
local namespace i think what
i would feel more naturally using
pinning service is say ipfs pin
and specify target wear and it could be
local and few other services that i
named
or like something along those lines
rather than having to
procedurally go and like pin every place
i wanted to
another one was the request id i
find it weird that it's
like service provider generates one
versus it's derived from the
pin itself like
we could use cids for instance for that
yeah i mean that's i don't know if it is
we could we can move to that it's i
don't know if it's strictly required
right now we just tell people to use
unique things and
we could come back i mean we could come
back to that but
one problem is that on a client it
requires additional bookkeeping now i
can't just check what this cid thing is
i have to like
have this mapping between things and
request ids is something generated and
at some point i have to also apply to
clean up
just yeah one of the things that ideas
is to be able to support
multiple pins we have multiple pins for
the same cid
so using different unique views yeah but
like maybe so when you create a pin
object it has a bunch of other fields so
i imagine
there should be something different
across them so they would lead to the
different cids or if
they don't maybe they should have
something feel like i don't know
maybe you assign an additional thing
so you you you um here's the issue so
you're suggesting that you want
first of all you're making an assumption
that yeah these pins should be have
different
stuff in them which is a sort of a
quoted assumption i guess but
but are you suggesting that like the pin
id should be some kind of a hash of all
the things
cids that are in it yeah so we do have a
pin object right
well not really but we kind of pretend
so that we have pin objects that has
metadata and much of other things
and actually linked to the cid so what
i'm saying
maybe is that pin should not be
identified by the request id
that somebody generates but should be
identified by the hash
of that thing and if you want to pin the
same thing
same like dog with
two different pins well make something
different about it
that's up to you sort of i think what
might
you might run into some like
i'm trying to think if you'd like to
like causality or timing issues because
you'd want the random like let's say you
just threw in a random number
so here's the problem yeah the problem
is race conditions because
you have asynchronous access to the
pinning service
and if you say something like remove my
pin
um um it's kind of like
i guess it becomes an uh item button so
we're actually you do if you do a remove
and an ad and the
unique and the unique number that's
inside of the thing being hashed
is generated on the client side then
then you're in trouble because now you
don't know which thing was supposed to
happen first
so we're we're a bit over time i just
want to tie in here that like
there there are a lot of things that we
could be doing differently here and then
there's also like
the mbp scope of getting the thing out
which we're doing right now
and then there's the very big scope of
this which is likely
lib p2p based for the exchange
potentially actually doing thread db
like threads for
the actual pinning service that was like
the pi and sky from earlier this year on
the pending service
so i agree there is a a roll up of all
this information that we should at least
try to do like gather the summary of
this especially like before we wrap up
for this year
so that we you know people don't go on
holiday and then come back and totally
forget what we're doing
where we create this thought stream of
hey we had the
pinning meet up earlier this year lydell
created the dock for the work streams
we created some subsequent hack md's for
like those various things let's roll up
the thoughts on like
okay when we come back to revisit this
especially like
looking at improving content routing
early next year where
should pinning go in the long term to
have those conversations so that we can
then
write out the thoughtful thing um with
getting this thing working for now so
that we can migrate over to the
the better well thought out thing in the
future yeah that sounds right that's
basically what i was asking for
especially like now that i'm getting
more feedback on why things are a
certain way
there was a document that i could just
read would be more effective than i can
know what the reasoning is
also is i guess like a brief heads up on
things related to the ipfs api
we have a very difficult time at least
in go
uh but like updating updating the apis
without breaking everyone's flows so we
have some
we have like a couple proposals in place
for like how we might tackle this but
that's sort of
the reason things look a little awkward
is because of doing gradual development
without
making everything break um and we need
to make our upgrade pads easier but
that's like uh
that's another thing on the roadmap
please take a look at my grpc pr
it helps with apis oh my gosh
it is way better
i mean subjectively
um we are way over time i think
we should call this to a close uh thank
you for coming everyone do
please put your uh async updates
in the notes uh let us know what you've
been working on where you're blocked on
what are you doing next
it's gonna be like everyone wants to
know let's talk about this stuff
um cool thank you very much everyone
this has been the ibf's core
implementations weekly sync for
monday the 30th november i'll see you
all next week
bye